README.md, before:

# 🧠 AI Word Search

## Reason
I was at work with nothing to do [^1], when I found an old word-search puzzle book. Only two pages were completed — by the end of my shift, I had finished 46. [^2] That got me thinking...

[^1]: I finished all my work for the day  
[^2]: It's been a while since I last did a word search  
[^3]: My approach involved letter searching, then expanding the grid 3x3 from the point of origin (first letter)  
[^4]: You choose the amount

## Thoughts
While flying through the puzzles, I started to notice some patterns:
1. How quickly I was solving them
2. The specific method I was using to find words [^3]
3. Are there other methods to search for words?
4. Could an AI replicate or test these methods — and show which one is most efficient?

## Idea
- Generate **n** word search puzzles with **n** words each [^4]
- Use different solving strategies to solve each puzzle
- Track performance metrics like time and search steps
- Visualize and compare the results to evaluate method efficiency

## Goals
- [ ] Word search puzzle generator  
- [ ] Implement multiple solving methods  
- [ ] Track performance for each method  
- [ ] Display results (graph)

## Solving Methods
I went online and found several strategies. I'm going to implement and test them within this project.

| Strategy Name       | Description |
|---------------------|-------------|
| **Brute Force**      | Check every cell and direction for possible matches |
| **Frequency Heuristic** | Prioritize words with uncommon starting letters |
| **Pattern Match**    | Scan rows/columns for regex-like word shapes |
| **Diagonal Bias**    | Focus only on diagonal matches (as a performance comparison) |
| **My Method**        | Start from identified letters and expand a 3x3 grid outward [^3] |


## Phase
- [ ] Step 1 – build puzzle generator

Commit message:

finish brute force and added git ignore

README.md, after:

# 🧠 AI Word Search

## Reason
I was at work with nothing to do [^1], when I found an old word-search puzzle book. Only two pages were completed — by the end of my shift, I had finished 46. [^2] That got me thinking...

[^1]: I finished all my work for the day  
[^2]: It's been a while since I last did a word search  
[^3]: My approach involved letter searching, then expanding the grid 3x3 from the point of origin (first letter)  
[^4]: You choose the amount

## Thoughts
While flying through the puzzles, I started to notice some patterns:
1. How quickly I was solving them
2. The specific method I was using to find words [^3]
3. Are there other methods to search for words?
4. Could an AI replicate or test these methods — and show which one is most efficient?

## Idea
- Generate **n** x **n** grid
- Generate **n** word search puzzles with **n** words each [^4]
- Use different solving strategies to solve each puzzle
- Track performance metrics like time and search steps
- Visualize and compare the results to evaluate method efficiency

## Goals
- [ ] Word search puzzle generator  
- [ ] Implement multiple solving methods  
- [ ] Track performance for each method  
- [ ] Display results (graph)

## Solving Methods
I went online and found several strategies. I'm going to implement and test them within this project.

| Strategy Name       | Description |
|---------------------|-------------|
| **Brute Force**      | Check every cell and direction for possible matches |
| **Frequency Heuristic** | Prioritize words with uncommon starting letters |
| **Pattern Match**    | Scan rows/columns for regex-like word shapes |
| **Diagonal Bias**    | Focus only on diagonal matches (as a performance comparison) |
| **My Method**        | Start from identified letters and expand a 3x3 grid outward [^3] |


## Phase
- [ ] Step 1 – Build puzzle generator
    > During the coding phase I realized that I didn't have words to put into the generator, I had grab a word.txt file on git for the project. 
- [ ] Step 2  - Build Algorithm(methods) solver
    > Brute Force
